Hello everybody and welcome to this
tutorial.
Today I will show you another more reliable way
to install VirtualBox.
If you're wondering why on earth
did I show you the other way using the RPM
if we're not going to use it here.
Well, it's always good to have another option.
Plus the procedure is exactly the same
if you're installing any other RPM packets.
So you just type in "rpm -i"
and that you just type in the name of the package that you have downloaded
and that you wish to install.
The procedure is exactly the same.
I would recommend passing an H argument as well
to give you a status bar
because if you just go ahead and type it in like this
within the name of the package.
It's gonna install it, no problems of
course
but the screen is just going to wait.
Nothing is going to happen.
You might think it's bugged or something like that
during the installation procedure.
Like this, with H, there's a status bar
that shows
so you know that something in the background is happening
but as I said, it's good to have another
option.
What we want to do today and now is actually install VirtualBox
using the default packet manager called "yum"
and pull the package from the repositories.
Now what are repositories?
Repositories are places where software packages are stored
and for Linux distros
and then you can pull those packets
those software packets
from your Linux distro using the default packet manager.
It's very simple.
It's extremely easy
and it's one of those things that you will absolutely need to know how to do
because you will be installing and uninstalling a lot of things
during the course of your pen testing careers.
During the course of pretty much any pen testing exercise in general.
So let me just demonstrate this to you.
You type in "yum"and then you give it a command.
First of all, use yum to call your default packet manager
which is yum basically, because I am using Fedora
but if I was using some sort of a debian distro
It could be "aptitude"
or it could be "apt-get"
and some other distros have their own packet managers
but we're not going to get into those now.
Later on, I will show you what Kali Linux is using.
That is the Linux distro that we will be
using
in order to conduct some of the pen testing exercises.
So first off, you type in "yum" as I said
and then type in "search"
which you're basically telling yum what to do.
You wanted to search for something, so you just type in "search".
It's pretty much exactly the same as
English language
you just kind of need to figure out the logical of it
and then you want to search for an
approximate name of the package.
that you want.
So you don't perhaps know the full name or something like that.
Don't worry about it
just type in a portion of the name.
It will suffice
and pretty much everything that contains that portion of the name
will be displayed.
So we know what we want.
It's VirtualBox
and you might think that this is the of  the package
but no, it is not
Soon you will see
and there you go.
It has printed out every packet
every package that contains VirtualBox in it's name.
The word VirtualBox in the name
with the package
or in the description of the package
because you see you have the name of the package here
colon
and then you have the description of the package here.
There are a lot of things
a lot of things with the name "VirtualBox"
and you're wondering perhaps which ones to install.
Well, you need the Knod one, and here you have the kernel version
and fedora version
So FC would be the Fedora version
and you have the architecture
It's 64
I can't select it -- there we go -- It's 64
and here you have the kernel version.
So you can compare it to what you have
and based on what you have
what your operating system is
you can take it from there, assuming it's a Fedora 20.
You can use any other distro.
The procedure is fairly the same.
Later on, in the question parts
if you are using, for example, a Debian based distro
or an openSUSE or something like that
feel free to ask me if you can't manage it there.
I will help you out, no problems
but for the time being, I'm just go ahead and install it here.
Let me just go ahead and clear the screen
in order to install the package.
Need to type "yum install"
and then you need to go ahead and type the name of your package
which would be the last one for us.
For me, anyway.
This one.
Whoops...here we go.
The name is a bit long, so I'm just gonna go ahead and copy it
but you see, there is one fundamental problem here.
The VirtualBox package
is not found in the default repositories of Fedora
and that is a bit of a problem
primarily because not have these commands would actually work
if I did not previously import RPM fusion repositories.
"RPM fusion" is simply the name for a certain type of repositories
containing certain types of packets.
So I have imported those repositories
and now I can pull information and packages from them.
If I did not do that previously
I would not have been able to do any of
these things
yum, search VirtualBox would yield no results whatsoever.
I would get a blank screen.
I would get like a message here saying that no packages were found
that matched this particular name
and then just a black screen.
That's it.
So that could be problematic.
In order to solve that problem
you need to go ahead and open up your favorite browser.
I already have this website open to save a bit of time
It says rpmfusion.org/configuration
but here, let me just go ahead and search for it.
So, type into any search engine "rpmfusion"
It's gonna pop. Do not worry.
So it's rpmfusion.org
Click on the website, open it up
and here you're gonna get instructions immediately.
It's a very simplistic website.
There isn't any tinkering that you need think about
or some advance configuration.
Nothing a kind.
It just says "For users"
and says "Enable RPM Fusion on your system"
Click OK
Uh, not okay. Just click on the link and there you go!
You get a listing here.
You get a listing downloads.
It says "free" and "nonfree"
and don't be intimidated with this "nonfree"
You do not need to pay for anything
It is nonfree for redistributable software
that is not open source software
as defined by Fedora licensee guidelines.
So this nonfree does not refer to money.
You do not need to pay anything here.
I cannot make it any more clearer.
It simply refers that the software is not open source software
as defined by Fedora licensee guidelines.
So, it might actually be open source but it just doesn't fit
within the boundaries of Fedora
licensing guidelines.
Anyway, that part is not that interesting to you.
Down below, the thing that you need to know here
is that nonfree is actually free, in terms of money
but not free in terms of source code.
Anyway, as I said, that's not really that important for you
anyway, at the moment.
Down here you have
actually RPM packages.
Remember from the previous tutorial
I've shown you the extension ".rpm"
When you download the package
we could actually download one of these.
Actually I would download the first one
and then install it using my RPM software.
Just type in "rpm -i", and then I would
there we go
I just clicked on it
then I would pass this file name as an
argument as well
and it would install it, no problems as well.
but I don't really want to do that at the moment.
I want to show you a different way of doing it.
If you're wondering why it is being repeated twice
this is for free and this is for nonfree.
Excellent
What we want is the command line setup using RPM.
It says here "Fedora 14" to the most current.
So mine is 20.
It's gonna work there, no problems as well.
So you have this very long command
and you don't really need to know what every single portion of this command is
or what it does.
basic sum total it imports a repository into your system
that you are going to use later on.
They have given this command,so you can do it from tap basically
You don't need to go about doing things or anything of a kind.
You basically just copy paste this and run it.
You are using your default package manager.
You are using local install option.
You are not checking for certain types of keys.
You are a giving it the place from which to pull it
and so on and so forth.
But later on as we progress through this
tutorial
we will deal extensively with Linux command line.
So only then will these things become clearer to you
once I actually explain some of the basic and fundamental things
then you will be able to understand things
such as those listed is this bracket
sorry not bracket
within the confines of this parentheses
and so on
because if I start explaining it now
it would no sense
and it simply complicate things further.
And I said, later on when we get into the command line interface of Linux
When I start explaining it in great detail
there I will begin from scratch.
Then move you basically from beginner to advanced user
In a relatively short amount of time
and then you will be able to understand what all these things are.
For the time being, just copy this content
which is within the confines of these quotation marks
and paste it into your terminal.
So you do need to be root
let me just go ahead and exit
I am no longer root, as you can see.
I am now my regular user - "Chronic"
Just type "SU" type
Type in your password
and paste this.
Press "Enter"
okay, obviously it won't install here
because I already have it installed.
Yeah, it says "nothing to do" whatsoever
but on your system, where you do not have RPM fusion installed
this would just fly as well.
This would just pass, no problems
and you would successfully have installed RPM fusion
on your system as well.
So "clear"
Anyway, I just wanted to show you something else
that I neglected to show you a moment ago.
This command that we've ran
it actually installs free and nonfree repositories
If you just take a closer look to what I
am highlighting at the moment.
This is the free, so it says
http://downloadl1rpmfusion.org/free/fedora/
rpmfusion-free-release-$(rpm -E %fedora).noarch.rpm
and down below, you have the second address
again, download http://download1.rpmfusion.org
and it says nonfree.
So I'm highlighting the entire thing
zoom it in a bit more so everybody can
see
and there you go.
You have two completely
well, they're not completely different addresses
but they are definitely different addresses
referring to different types of repositories.
Anyway, now can go back to your terminal.
Do not log out of root
Stay as root, because you will root privileges in order do this.
Type in "yum"
Search
Once again
Virtualbox
Press "Enter"
Take the last one or whatever one suits your current kernel.
You check the current kernel by typing
in "uname -a"
and here you go.
So I'm 3.18.7-100
3.18.7-100.fc20
fc20 and there you have the architecture listed here as well.
So clear the screen
Type in "yum"
Install
Paste the name of the package
Press "Space dash Y"
and if you have this command, just press "Enter"
and it will install.
It will run through.
I've already installed VirtualBox to save some time as well.
You will have it up and running on your
system
and after you've installed it, do not forget to type in "yum"
Update as well.
So let the system just run through the updates.
So you would make sure that you have the latest version
That you have everything up-to-date and running.
In any case, that would be it for this tutorial.
In the next one, I will start VirtualBox up
explain some of it's features
and hopefully through the follow-up tutorials
I will start installing an operating system within my virtual machine
within virtual environment
and we'll see how that process goes.
Thank you for watching and I hope to see you in the next tutorial.